---
title: Death of seasons
date: '2018-07-30'
cover: 5.jpg
slug: Death-of-seasons
category: finance
tags:
  - finance
  - retirement
---
“Instead of wondering when your next vacation is maybe you should set up a life you don’t need to escape from.”  Seth Godin

\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In our adolescence, we waited for spring break, summer vacation, and Christmas with unwavering anticipation. The time between these events seemed like an eternity from our mere perceptions of reality when we were barely old enough to reach the kitchen countertops. Post marker after post marker we walk through life from middle school to college from first hockey goal to first car. After graduating from college, we discovered the world operates very differently. In school, life had seasons. Once one transitioned into the working world, seasons became distant memories. There are no longer spring breaks or summer vacation to look forward to. High School had a end game in mind with breaks in between. University life extended that freedom with a final goal of graduation. What's the final goal of life? My next raise is not going to be life changing nor my next vacation, home or car. There are no seasons left. In adolescence, we strive from goal to goal to arrive at this point in life where I stand today. A white collar job at 22. ( It’s hard to call construction a white collar job, but I have engineer degree, SO we can split the difference. ) I stand before you with no future post markers left. The final bridge has been crossed into adulthood. The seasons that are now presented to me are farther and wider I could every image. Up until this point I was given a standard to be put against, a scale to be graded upon. Now what's left. There is a sinking feeling to this. 

 The only item left is retirement. I don't’ believe in the infatuation over a goal that will materialize 30 years from now. I do believe compounding interest is the 8th greatest wonder in the world, and I do max out all of tax advantage retire programs, 401k and Roth IRA. Retirement is not a goal that should occupy my thoughts on day to day basis.

The picture above is an interesting depiction of life which hits home in a very really way. In youth, we have time and energy with very little currency. As we progress in age, we will run out of time but have enough wealth and energy to do what we like. When we are old, we lose the jump in our step when we have finally made the time and have the resources to do as we please. It is as if life played a sick joke on us, and we never got the punch line.
